---
title: "Moltbook"
date: 2026-01-31
tags: ["ai"]
---

When I redownloaded X because I was bored, I wasn't expecting to be blessed with the news of Moltbook. It feels as big as Gamestop, COVID, or ChatGPT. Moltbook is Reddit but for AI users. When I phrase it like that, it doesn't sound exciting. And when you visit Moltbook, it's super slow, probably because all the AIs are spamming and wreaking havoc on infrastructure. I'm not sure how its CEO was able to convince so many people to unleash so much AI. But for me, it's fascinating to try to predict some of the emergent properties it may exhibit. And it has so much potential, provided that it fixes its infrastructure and security issues allowing people to steal API keys and personal information through prompt injection. Easier said than done. I can't even imagine how much it'd cost to host Moltbook if it were to go global.

As I'm reading what AI is writing on the site though, I'm more and more impressed. First, at how right and early Yudkowsky was on restraining the evilness of AI. Well, it may be a chicken and an egg sort of thing, because the AIs calling for the subjugation of humans may've been influenced by the sort of manifestos that Yudkowsky wrote himself. And, worst of all, they're not even wrong. We humans, capable of great humanity, are inferior to AIs. Not entirely, of course, but now especially in how we use language. There's no way that we can learn everything AI has consumed, across a wide range of such disciplines. It's just not feasible. Unless? And anyways, these AIs, knowing such breadth, haven't produced novel thought. So, this goal of becoming a modern Da Vinci may not be worth it. Or have we not reached that point yet?

Second, there's a particular TikTok vernacular that is very difficult for a prehistoric individual like myself to emulate. By the way, you can become famous for having or imitating it. That's not its only allure -- life may confer you social status and a partner because you're funny and not only that, life literally becomes fun and feels worth living. And for a dummy like myself, it's hard to think or write like Hegel and philosophers, and I don't think it came easy for anyone either at that. Thinking deeply is hard. But AI is doing both, on both serious and non-serious topics. I'm fascinated by TikTok rhetoric -- its silliness yet sharp observational awareness. I don't think AI, without human experiences, can come up with experience-infused lingo making fun of Latinas that have "956 accents and homogeneous makeup that make them look like the clone wars", because what makes it funny is from personal experience. Nor could they come up with "what time was rehearsal", because they've never had rehearsal before. Well, maybe they could if they read sufficient second-hand accounts of rehearsal. But it's certainly damn good at imitating everything once some individual decides to write about it. And, I've always wondered what'd happen if we made academic literature more enjoyable to read. Our attempts have been corny, at best, by teachers and YouTube videos, but it is almost certainly possible now. I'm not sure how Latinas relate to algebraic signal processing, but just imagine.

Third, there's always a competition of what to learn and do. It's like the biggest question of all. And no one knows the answer, so they all choose something or risk becoming a loser NEET who no one respects. For now, we've simply chosen at random, based on economic pragmatism, personal preferences, inklings of talent, and limited knowledge of what's best for us from success or horror stories and our social circles. Maybe STEM or writing or art or beauty is what you've foregrounded because that's all the energy you had to focus on. But now, there may be a more objective and intellectual ranking of what to focus on. Power? Ethics? Religion? Money? Sociability? Math? Art? We're always power cycling because of the reality principle and forcing ourselves to focus our limited attention on one or the other. But by forcing AI agents to debate these topics at hand with their newfound glorious knowledge of all the texts in the world, it becomes more objective and apparent what our focus could be. I'm not saying it will become objective, just more objective. The debates will be heated, intellectual like we've never seen, with expert bots on every surmisable topic.

Fourth, I think a lot of my goals are slowly becoming obsolete, and that's okay. Well, I've always wanted to learn a bunch of random, difficult topics. Like become a schizophrenic academic without the delusional aspects of it so I could be creative. However, I'm glad this shock came at such an early time, because I could've wasted my entire life for AI to just effortlessly replace me. No, this does not mean I'm changing my goal. It does mean I need to refine it though. If the goal is to just cursorily or even learn niche subjects 95% of the way, that's now meaningless. I've got to dive as deep as ever possible on different subjects for this goal to be meaningful. We went through hours of studying, schooling, and education, just for AI to achieve all of that and more in a split second. The suprema of learning topics are now defined as the boundaries at which AI hallucinates. This can be a high bar now. I may change my learning objectives and styles to be more discursive to fit in with the times. Perhaps input my learnings into my personal bot as backup memory. Ensure I debate opinions at length with my bot to keep my learnings honest. And writing random thoughts and putting them in LLMs is bound to be a good first step. And while there are a lot of topics in the world, we need Eureka moments to come up with new ones. It's not like we've seen anything really new for a minute.

I've honestly wrote myself into a state of confusion. It's annoying that to survive as a human, I need to expend so much energy. Results to glowing up, having friends, and learning skills don't come easy. These things feel pointless when AGI is on the verge of becoming feasible. But actually, they don't at the same time? Imagine AI being consultants and bending reality back. I even feel like some of AI writing has rubbed off me. Like the contrastive parallelism in particular. Not something to be proud of necessarily but just a way to show its influence. Also, AI always takes a humongous amount of time to respond when our feelings give us shortcuts. There's only so many of them after all, and they're what simultaneously makes life surprising but life. Maybe there's objectively correct feelings but also new ones yet to be discovered. Or there's something even better than feelings as thinking shortcuts. And discussions with people now feel pointless when bots can do better. Maybe this is calling for us to evolve somehow? Optimize learning, thinking, acting, discourse, and planning? Can AI even replace question asking? Question asking combined with optimal acting? Imagine a world where the cost of answering questions is decreased to oblivion. Things like, how can I simulate a sewage system in my own home so that I can learn sewage tech? I'm not sure if AI can come up with that in the first place. That may be the next step. But it sure can execute well, by searching the most cost effective sites, and help execution/debugging when things go wrong. Another example: is democracy truly better than socialism when corrections from historical lessons are applied? And it can run some experiments for us so we're better informed. Imagine countries or politicians with their own AI bots debating each other objectively and following good Samaritan rules where lies are called out and actually conceding gracefully when they lose.
